Add documentation (#87)
precice/systemtests: docs/development.md

* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
* [Docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
* [Main Travis docs](https://docs.travis-ci.com/)
* [Travis API](https://developer.travis-ci.com/)

# Useful patterns and commands
##  During development of standalone Dockerfiles

If something fails during the build you can determine the command where it failed and comment out the remaining of the Dockefile. Then rebuild and tag for instance
`test_image`. You can then interactively try to follow commented out section of Dockefile, by starting container interactively
```
   docker run -it --rm test_image /bin/bash
```
Usually in this way or similar it is way easier to debug errors.

## During development of the test cases

If something fails during running `docker-compose` due to communication problems or invalid input, the easiest way to debug is:

1. Add sleep timer (e.g. `sleep 1000`) after running failed command
2. Rerun the failed setup
3. Attach to the failed container with e.g.
```
   docker-compose run -it calculix-adapter
```
4. You can then try to rerun command in `docker-compose.yml` and check the folders `/home/precice/Data/Input`, `/home/precice/Data/Exchange`, 

> `/home/precice/Data/Output`. Make sure the `precice-config.xml` is properly setup, input can be read and folders have proper rights.

Reviewer: What does "proper rights" mean? I think some comments on this might be helpful.

From my perspective there are two points, where things with rights can go wrong:

1. **provide data to the container:** User `precice` needs the rights to read (and write?) the data in the mounted folder.
2. **obtain data from the container** The host (or another container) needs the rights to read (and write?) the data written by the container into the folder.

My current use case is the following: I `docker run -ti` two containers (e.g. `fenics-adapter`) that do all the computation. The host provides the case setup (e.g. `/tutorials/HT/partitioned-heat/fenics-fenics`) using `-v`. If the host does not set the user rights properly, `precice` cannot access the case and write output to the folder and aborts.

Author: You can achieve it something like:

```
docker build -f Dockerfile.Ubuntu1804.home -t precice-user --build-arg uid=$UID --build-arg gid=$GID . 
docker build -f Dockerfile.fenics-adapter -t fenics-adapter-user --build-arg from=precice-user
```
where GID and UID are you group id (obtain e.g. with `id -a` on Linux). Then you run the container with:
```
docker run -ti --user=precice fenics-adapter-user /bin/bash
```

I you want to run two containers: 

```
docker volume create exchange
docker run --user=precice -it -v $(pwd)/HT/partitioned-heat/fenics-fenics:/home/precice/Data/Input -v exchange:/home/precice/Data/Exchange fenics-fenics-user /bin/bash```
You need to adjust the `precice-config file`, similarly as I do for tests though

Reviewer: Thanks! Did you already add these explanations to the documentation? As far as I understand `--build-arg uid` and `--build-arg gid` are not provided by docker, but you added them to the Dockerfiles (e.g. [here](https://github.com/precice/systemtests/blob/06fe89a4cd5af34ba8401b5c2f8631c6b1bd185a/Dockerfile.Ubuntu1604.home#L33-L34)) in order to sort out the user rights for our specific setup of docker containers.

Some questions the documentation should answer in this context:

* Why do we actually have to worry about creating a preCICE user?  
* Why not just run everything as `root` (which is often done in docker)? We, for example, need a non-root user for testing `make install` in a user folder. We rely at some places on `pip` for installing packages and you should not run `pip` as sudo (correct @fsimonis?). 
* What can we do with the `uid` and `gid` argument? See example above.

Author: Yes. Explanation that I wrote above should be in `docs/development.md` now. I also added some motivation behind the solution in `docs/architecture.md`.

> # Useful documentation

Reviewer 2: We probably need a document-wide title (heading 1, `#`) and a short introduction.

Reviewer 2: The second section can actually be the main one and the "useful documentation" could follow as a subsection.

* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
* [Docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
* [Main Travis docs](https://docs.travis-ci.com/)
* [Travis API](https://developer.travis-ci.com/)

> # Useful patterns and commands

Reviewer 2: Very good advice!  :+1:  :+1:  :+1:

##  During development of standalone Dockerfiles

> If something fails during the build you can determine the command where it failed and comment out the remaining of the Dockerfile. Then rebuild and tag for instance `test_image`. You can then interactively try to follow commented out section of the Dockerfile, by starting the container interactively

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If something fails during building, you can determine the failing command and comment out the remaining of the Dockerfile. Then, rebuild and tag (e.g. `test_image`). You can then interactively try to follow the commented out section of the Dockerfile, by starting the container interactively:
```

```
   docker run -it --rm test_image /bin/bash
```

> Usually in this way or similar it is way easier to debug errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usually it is way easier to debug in this way.
```

## During development of the test cases

If something fails during running `docker-compose` due to communication problems or invalid input, the easiest way to debug is:

> 1. Add sleep timer (e.g. `sleep 1000`) after running failed command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add a sleep timer (e.g. `sleep 1000`) after the failing command
```

> 2. Rerun the failed setup

Reviewer 2: It should fail every time
```suggestion
2. Rerun the failing setup
```

> 3. Attach to the failed container with e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Attach to the failing container with e.g.
```

```
   docker-compose run -it calculix-adapter
```

> 4. You can then try to rerun command in `docker-compose.yml` and check the folders `/home/precice/Data/Input`, `/home/precice/Data/Exchange`, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. You can then try to rerun the commands in `docker-compose.yml` and check the folders `/home/precice/Data/Input`, `/home/precice/Data/Exchange`, 
```

`/home/precice/Data/Output`. Make sure the `precice-config.xml` is properly setup, input can be read and folders have proper rights (folders should be
owned by user `precice`, not the `root` user and not the user of your local machine, unless its `gid` and `uid` matches the one specified in the base Dockerfile)

> You should also try to make sure, both runs on local and remote machine works by testing both `local_test.py` and `system_testing.py` with the considered test case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should also make sure that running both on a local and a remote machine work, testing both `local_test.py` and `system_testing.py` with the considered test case.
```

## If something fails on Travis

1. Inspect the build log
2. Restart the build (maybe it is a connection problem)
3. Try to replicate it locally with e.g.
```

>    python3 system_testing.py -s su2-ccx

Reviewer 2: We still need to document somewhere what the difference between `local_test.py` and `system_testing.py` is. Probably in the main README.md file.

``` 
4. If it fails locally, use above-mentioned techniques to debug it. If is does not, bad luck. 

> ## If there are some network problems

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## If there are network problems
```

It can happen, that you cannot access the network from the inside of docker. You can try to fix it using `--network=host` during build of docker images or by specifying `network: host` in the `docker-compose.yml`.

## If CI on adapters does not work

You first need to add `TRAVIS_ACCESS_TOKEN` as environment variable on your system.

> Then you can  run and check generated JSON file without sending a request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you can  run and check the generated JSON file without sending a request:
```

```
   python3 trigger_systemtests.py --adapter su2 --test
``` 

> If it looks fine, you can run it without `--test` to actually send the request to Travis. Then check triggered builds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it looks fine, you can run it without `--test` to actually send the request to Travis. Then check the triggered builds.
```

> If there are no builds visible there, check `requests` section of Travis, maybe Travis could not interpret request correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there are no builds visible there, check the `requests` section of Travis; maybe Travis could not interpret the request correctly.
```

## If you want to use Dockefiles for your own development

> Some users might want to run coupled simulation without having it installed on your own machine. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some users might want to run coupled simulations without having everything installed on the same system. 
```

> For instance mount your own input for each adapter to `/home/precice/Data/Input` and get output from

Reviewer 2: Not sure what exactly you mean here. Maybe rephrase it?

`/home/precice/Data/Output`.

> With the provided setup and a few tweaks it is easy to achieve. On the example of the fenics-adapter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the provided setup and a few tweaks, this is easy to achieve. Using the example of the fenics-adapter:
```

```
docker build -f Dockerfile.Ubuntu1804.home -t precice-user --build-arg uid=$UID --build-arg gid=$GID . 
docker build -f Dockerfile.fenics-adapter -t fenics-adapter-user --build-arg from=precice-user
```

where `GID` and `UID` are you group id (obtained e.g. with `id -a` on Linux).

> Then you need to create volume for data exchange and modify `precice-config.xml`, so that data exchange folder 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you need to create a volume for data exchange and modify `precice-config.xml`, so that the data exchange folder 
```

is `/home/precice/Data/Exchange` and network is `eth0`.

```bash
docker volume create exchange
# this regex might differ depending on your precice-config.xml
sed -i 's|exchange-directory\="."|exchange-directory="/home/precice/Data/Exchange/" network="eth0"|g' \
    configs/precice-config.xml && cp $tutorial_path/config.yml  configs/config.yml
```

Then you are free to run your coupled simulation for each participant with:
```
docker run --user=precice -it -v $(pwd)/HT/partitioned-heat/fenics-fenics:/home/precice/Data/Input -v exchange:/home/precice/Data/Exchange fenics-adapter-user /bin/bash```
```

> output can then be copied from the containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Output can then be copied from the containers.
```
